---
layout: page
title: Bylaws of AAUP UW-Madison
description: Bylaws of the UW-Madison chapter of the AAUP (2015-09-02)
---

### Article I: Name

The name of this organization is the University of Wisconsin-Madison
chapter of the American Association of University Professors (AAUP or
the Association).


### Article II: Purposes

The purposes of this chapter are to:

1. Support the policies and goals of the Association as set forth in
Article I of the AAUP constitution, and in all matters act in harmony
with the principles and procedures of the national Association and its
constitution;

2. Facilitate the cooperation of teachers and research scholars in
universities and colleges, and in professional schools of similar
grade, for the promotion of the interests of higher education and
research, and in general to increase the usefulness and advance the
standards, ideals, and welfare of the profession.

3. Defend academic freedom at the University of Wisconsin-Madison and
throughout academe;

4. Encourage participation by faculty, staff and students in
governance at the University of Wisconsin-Madison;

5. Protect and advance the professional status and interests of all
teachers and research scholars, including academic professionals, at
the University of Wisconsin-Madison

6. Facilitate the dissemination of information on higher education
principles and practices;

7. Inform the academic community, including administrative bodies of
the University of Wisconsin-Madison and the University of Wisconsin
System, and the broader community, including legislative bodies of the
State of Wisconsin, about AAUP standards and policy statements; and

8. Develop necessary and proper chapter programs for the
accomplishment of the aforementioned purposes.

In furtherance of the purposes described above, but not in limitation
thereof, the chapter shall have power to conduct studies; to
disseminate statistics and other information; to engage in appropriate
fundraising activities; to conduct promotional activities, including
advertising and publicity, in or by any suitable manner of media; to
hold such property as is necessary to accomplish its purposes; and to
employ individuals to further its purposes under Article II. This
chapter is organized and operated for the above stated purposes, and
for other nonprofit purposes. No part of its assets, income, or
profits shall be distributable to, or inure to the benefit of, any
individual, except in consideration of services rendered.


### Article III: Members

Eligibility for membership in this chapter shall extend to all
qualified members of the Association, as set forth in Article II of
the AAUP Constitution, who identify the University of
Wisconsin-Madison as their institution. All chapter members may vote
in chapter matters.


### Article IV: Officers and Organization

Eligibility for membership in this chapter shall extend to all
qualified members of the Association, as set forth in Article II of
the AAUP Constitution, who identify the University of
Wisconsin-Madison as their institution. All chapter members may vote
in chapter matters.

**President**: The duties of the president shall include carrying out
the policies of the chapter, appointing all committees of the chapter,
exercising general supervision over the activities of the chapter, and
presiding at meetings of the chapter and executive committee. The
president shall be a member ex officio of all committees.

**Vice president**: The duties of the vice president shall include
those usually appertaining to the office and those delegated by the
president. In the absence of the president, the vice president shall
serve in the president's stead.

**Secretary**: The duties of the secretary shall include keeping a
record of all proceedings and correspondence of the chapter,
certifying chapter delegates to the Association's annual meeting,
preparing or overseeing the preparation of newsletters for
distribution to the faculty if such shall be desired, maintaining
official contact with the Association. It shall be the duty of the
secretary to provide the treasurer of the Association the names of the
officers of the chapter and the chapter bylaws and to conduct the
correspondence of the chapter with the treasurer. In the absence of
the president and vice president, the secretary shall preside at
meetings of the chapter.

**Treasurer**: The treasurer shall keep an accurate record of the
funds held by the chapter, as well as all funds received and
disbursed. The treasurer shall prepare an annual chapter budget and
report of finances, and submit them for approval. It shall be the duty
of the treasurer to remit to the Association and/or to the applicable
state conference any dues collected on behalf of the Association
and/or conference. In the absence of the president, vice president,
and secretary, the treasurer shall preside at meetings of the chapter.

When an officer has resigned or is disqualified, the office shall be
filled by a special election of the chapter, which shall be held as
promptly as is feasible. The executive committee is empowered to fill
vacancies in any elective office until a special election is held. The
person so elected shall hold office for the remainder of the term.


### Article V: Dues

The chapter may establish chapter dues. Any chapter dues will be
established by a secret ballot vote conducted among chapter members.
The vote may be conducted either by mail ballot or, after reasonable
notice, at a regular or special membership meeting. Chapter members
must pay current AAUP dues, any mandatory conference dues, and chapter
dues.


### Article VI: Committees

#### A. Executive Committee

The executive committee shall consist of the elected officers of the
chapter, the immediate past president, and five members elected at
large. The majority of the executive committee shall constitute a
quorum for conduct of business of the committee. Unless extraordinary
circumstances exist, notice and an agenda for any Executive Committee
meeting shall be made available to chapter members at least three days
prior to such Executive Committee meeting. Under extraordinary
circumstances, minimum notice time shall be four hours. The executive
committee shall assume responsibility for the chapter's continuing
effective presence at the institution, keeping all positions on the
executive committee filled as vacancies occur.

The executive committee shall:

1. Meet regularly;

2. Respond to faculty members seeking assistance;

3. Conduct the business of the chapter between meetings;

4. Regularly recruit members and encourage maintenance of membership;

5. Make necessary appointments to complete an unexpired term of any
officer;

6. Set the agenda with appropriate notice for chapter meetings;

7. Meet regularly with the administration for discussion of matters of
mutual interest; and

8. Respond to inquiries from the media.

#### B. Membership Committee

The membership committee shall regularly recruit new members and
encourage the maintenance of membership. Working with the treasurer
and other applicable chapter officers, the committee shall promote the
establishment of a dues collection plan and other appropriate plans to
encourage membership recruitment and maintenance.


#### C. Other Committees

The chapter may create additional standing and ad hoc committees as
necessary to promote the welfare of the chapter. The chair and members
of these committees shall be appointed by the president, in
consultation with the executive committee.


### Article VII: Meetings

The chapter shall hold regular meetings at least twice each academic
year.

Special meetings of the chapter may be called by the president or a
majority of the executive committee. Unless extraordinary
circumstances exist, written notice of such meetings shall be provided
each member by the secretary of the chapter at least seven days in
advance of the meeting date. Under extraordinary circumstances,
minimum notice time shall be one day. The president shall call special
meetings of the chapter within seven days of being so directed by the
executive committee or by a petition signed by ten percent of the
members.

The quorum required for the transaction of business at all meetings of
the chapter shall consist of twenty percent of the members, but no
fewer than eight members.

The chapter may conduct business and vote on motions in person or
electronically, as the executive committee deems appropriate. Any
motion voted on electronically shall not be deemed valid unless at
least twenty percent of members, but no fewer than eight members, have
voted in the affirmative, negative or formally abstained. When voting
electronically on any motion approving the issuance of a formal
statement on behalf of the University of Wisconsin-Madison chapter of
the Association, should ten percent of members vote in the negative,
the motion shall be deemed postponed until a special meeting is held,
and the negative votes shall constitute a petition signed by ten
percent of the members directing the president to call a special
meeting.


### Article VIII: Dissolution

Upon dissolution of the chapter, its assets shall be distributed to
the Association, which is a charitable and educational organization.


### Article IX: Amendments

These bylaws may be amended by majority vote of the members, provided
that a notice setting forth the proposed amendment or amendments, an
explanation thereof and known objections thereto shall have been sent
to each member at least seven days prior to the vote. Any member of
the chapter may initiate an amendment.


### Article X: Rules of Order

The most recent edition of Roberts Rules of Order Newly Revised shall
be the authority for this chapter in matters of procedure not
specified above.


_Enacted this Second day of September in the year 2015._
